doc/rbd: update front matter (#49035)
ceph/ceph: doc/rbd/index.rst

.. index:: Ceph Block Device; introduction

Ceph block devices are thin-provisioned, resizable, and store data striped over
multiple OSDs. Ceph block devices leverage :abbr:`RADOS (Reliable Autonomic
Distributed Object Store)` capabilities including snapshotting and replication,
and they provide strong consistency. Ceph block storage clients communicate

> with Ceph clusters by means of kernel modules or the ``librbd`` library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with Ceph clusters by means of a Linux kernel module or the ``librbd`` library.
```

Author: I take your point, but I'd like to beef up the paragraph that defines block storage and completely rewrite the last sentence. I'll chew on it and make sure you guys are satisfied before we merge anything here.

.. index:: Ceph Block Device; introduction

> RBD (the Ceph block device) is a service that provides thin-provisioned,

Reviewer 2: I _think) it's possible to thick-provision, but it's rarely done, so probably no need to complicate here.

Reviewer: Yes, it's possible but it's a niche use case.  At the same time we definitely want to highlight thin-provisioning because a lot of properties fall out of that, so +1 to not complicating here.

resizable block devices that offer snapshotting and cloning as features. 

> A block is a sequence of bytes (often 512). Block-based storage interfaces are

Reviewer 2: I might remove `A block is a sequence of bytes (often 512). `, I'm not sure that it adds value here.

Author: I agree. I've removed it.

In the main, I don't like this paragraph or the sentences in it. The first sentence points up the maturity and prevalence of the method of block-based storage and then lists physical media upon which block storage has been implemented. Even if I agreed with the inclusion in this introduction to RBD of this idea regarding the pervasiveness of block devices, I question the value in 2022 of emphasizing the maturity of the block-based storage model. I think it puts the text in danger of pointing out what is taken by most people nowadays as a matter of course and therefore unremarkable. And I object outright to the use of the adjective "common" where "prevalent" is meant, but that's just because "common" has a potentially negative connotation if it is accidentally read as referring to class and not read as referring to frequency of use or implementation. It's a very nit-picky semantic distinction, but if we can avoid this kind of ambiguity ,why shouldn't we? I might recast this sentence charitably by writing "Block-based storage interfaces are used to store data on HDDs, SSDs, CDs, floppy disks, and tape. The block storage model, having existed for decades, is mature and reliable. Block storage is perhaps the most prevalent form of storage in the early twenty-first century.".

The sentence that follows is a real howler: 

>The ubiquity of block device interfaces is a perfect fit for interacting with mass data storage including Ceph.

I think that this means to say nothing more grand than that Ceph can work with block device interfaces. But it includes this three-pipe problem of a phrasal verb, "is a perfect fit for interacting with", which seems to me the kind of thing that no one could have actually intended to write. Admittedly, I can think of situations in which the phrase "perfect fit" is appropriate: *This shirt is a perfect fit!* or *This couch is a perfect fit, right between the piano and the door!*. But I remain adamant that the sentence as it is written, in which the ubiquity of block device interfaces is identified as a perfect fit for interacting with mass data storage including Ceph, cannot be what was meant. That's just not how the semantics of the word "fit" work. This sentence sounds a bit to me like a Ceph salesman slapping the side-panel of a brand-new, shiny, red Ceph fresh from the factory and on the showroom floor and saying "the ubiquity of block device interfaces makes this baby a perfect fit for interacting with mass data storage including this!". I think that this kind of expression should cause all native English speakers to pause and then to ask "The *ubiquity* does that?".

Reviewer 2: You aren't wrong.

media including HDDs, SSDs, CDs, floppy disks, and even tape. The ubiquity of
block device interfaces is a perfect fit for interacting with mass data storage
including Ceph.

RBD stores data striped over multiple OSDs. Ceph block devices leverage
:abbr:`RADOS (Reliable Autonomic Distributed Object Store)` capabilities
including snapshotting and replication, and they provide strong consistency.
Ceph block storage clients communicate with Ceph clusters by means of kernel

> modules or the ``librbd`` library.

Reviewer: Per previous suggestion: "by means of a Linux kernel module"

Author: Roger that, @idryomov. I've included this elaboration.

.. index:: Ceph Block Device; introduction

> **rbd** is a utility that can manipulate rados block device (RBD) images. It is

Reviewer: `rbd` utility (CLI tool) isn't used by Linux kernel or QEMU/KVM.  Users may use to create and manipulate RBD images but that is not the only way to do that.  Also, RADOS should be capitalized.
